Well, sitting on my desk is a new Mac
Mini that I set up just for the purpose
of running my team of AI agents using
OpenClaw. I've got a developer, a
marketer, a project manager, a system
admin. They each have their own
personality. They've got a queue of
tasks tracked in this custom dashboard
that I built and I'm chatting with them
in Slack just like I would with my real
team members except they're agents
powered by OpenClaw and various large
language models. What a time this is.
But, you know, getting this up and
running was not a plug-and-play
situation. Over the past week and many
late nights, I had to figure out my
answers to question after question, some
technical, some strategic, like, should
I order a new Mac Mini or can I run
OpenClaw on a VPS? And what's this going
to cost me in API tokens? And could I
use my Claw Max plan? And what chat tool
is best for my agents, Telegram or
WhatsApp or Slack? Should I have it
power one agent or can I set up a team
of agents? and am I going to need a
custom dashboard for managing them? And
let's not forget about security. What
should my agents be able to access? And
how should I think about safeguards? And
most importantly, what's my use case
here? What will I have my team of agents
actually do for me? So today, I'll share
where I've landed on all of those
questions, and I'll show you my setup
for all of it. You know, to be honest, I
didn't see the appeal of OpenClaw at
first. Back when it was called Claudebot
and then Moltbot and it was buzzing
around Twitter a couple weeks ago,
everyone was talking about having their
agent respond to their emails for them
or book flights or order takeout. And I
don't want or need an AI agent in my
personal life and I don't even want it
to manage my calendar. But then I
started thinking about a real challenge
that I've been having in my business and
how setting up OpenClaw could help me
solve it. You know, I run this YouTube
channel and Builder Methods Pro on my
courses and a weekly newsletter. And
thanks to things like Claude Code, of
course, building things has never been
easier. But building it is only half of
what I do. I develop training content. I
manage a publishing pipeline. And I
oversee my membership business. But
lately, I've been bottlenecked. There's
so much more that I want to create and
deliver. If only I had the bandwidth. In
my past businesses, I solved this by
hiring real teams and building processes
to help us scale. And that worked, but
the overhead was real, too. So, when I
gave OpenClaw another look, I asked a
different question. Not do I want a
personal assistant, but what if this
could fill roles on my team? And now,
I'm convinced that this paradigm,
autonomous agents with defined roles
running on their own machines, I think
this is here to stay. Now, OpenCloud is
just the first generation of what I
think will be much bigger. So, I want to
be figuring this out now, and maybe this
video can help you get started, too. If
you're new here, I'm Brian Castle. I
help builders stay ahead of the curve
with AI. And every Friday, I send my
builder briefing. That's a free
fiveminute read where I give you my no
hype take on making this transition to
adopting AI. You can get yours by going
to buildermethods.com.
And if you're serious about leveling up,
check out builder methods pro where you
can join our community and get training
for builders. All right, so what
actually is OpenClaw? It used to be
called Cloudbot and then Moltbot. And
how is this actually different from how
you might use cloud code or any other
agent? The core of OpenClaw is what's
called the gateway. That's a process
running on a machine, which shouldn't be
your personal machine, but we'll talk
about security in a moment. The
OpenCloud gateway can run tools. It
could use a browser. It can execute bash
scripts. Of course, cloud code can do a
lot of that, too. But what makes
OpenCloud different is that it's always
on. It maintains a persistent workspace
with memory and session logs. So you can
chat with your agents through Telegram
or Slack and delegate tasks that they
can do on their own in the background.
So that's a fundamentally different
paradigm from you personally managing
cloud code sessions in your terminal.
OpenClaw is closer to having teammates
who do their work on their own
workstations. The first question is
where should this thing run? Now I don't
recommend you run OpenClaw on your daily
driver machine. You don't want to give
it unfettered access to your files and
your accounts. And even if you isolate
it with something like Docker, your
machine would need to be on and awake
24/7 for your agents to work. So,
OpenClaw needs its own dedicated
machine. That could be a cloud VPS
starting at around five bucks a month.
Or it could be a physical machine.
Doesn't have to be a Mac Mini. Any kind
of computer on your network. Both are
valid and a lot of people are doing well
with the VPS setups. But I went ahead
and I spent the 600 bucks on a new Mac
Mini M4. And call me old school, but I
like to be able to screen share into it,
see the desktop, install things, and
manage it visually. And I SSH in too
when I just need to run a quick command.
And if I end up using my agent team for
all the use cases that I have in mind,
I'll need more storage and bandwidth
than the cheap VPS tiers offer. So, the
cost would start to balance out anyway.
And hey, if none of this works out, I'll
throw that Mac Mini up in my home music
studio. I'll use it up there. So, I've
got the dedicated machine. But that's
just the first layer. I need to think
carefully about what my agents can and
can't access. Now, this is where the
hiring metaphor really kicked in. If I'm
bringing someone onto my team, I
wouldn't give them access to my personal
laptop or let them loose on a browser
where I'm logged into everything. No, an
employee would get their own machine,
their own email, access to the files and
services that they need with the right
permissions, nothing more. So, that's
what I did. I set up a dedicated email
address for my agents. I created a
GitHub username that I can invite to
specific repos. I can grant and revoke
access to services just like I would
with any other team member. Now, files
were a bit trickier. I want easy two-way
syncing between my computer and the
OpenClaw workspace on the Mac Mini,
especially since I'm developing a a
brain system where all my business
activity gets logged into Markdown files
that my agents can access and work with.
More on the brain maybe another time. So
all my files live either in GitHub repos
or my main Dropbox account, but I don't
want to just share my personal Dropbox
with OpenClaw. That gives it access to
way too much. So I had OpenClaw set up
its own Dropbox account. And so the
specific folders that I want to share
between my main Mac and the OpenClaw Mac
Mini, both Dropbox accounts have access
to those. And so everything else stays
walled off. All right, let's talk about
costs because if you're not careful, you
can easily run up hundreds or even
thousands of dollars in token costs just
chatting with your agents and running
tasks. I blew past $200 in the first two
days of setting up my system. Now, I
already pay for a Cloud Max plan and I
was hoping that I could just use that,
but then I heard the stories of accounts
being shut down because this type of
usage might be against Anthropic's terms
of service. And then within a few days
he upgraded to the $200 subscription or
euros because he's in Austria. And he
was in love with that thing. That for me
was like a very early product
validation. It's like I built something
that
captures
people. And then a few days later
Andropic blocked him because based on
their rules using the subscription is
problematic or whatever.
>> So there's real ambiguity there. And I
genuinely wish that there would be some
official word one way or the other. Now
I intend to play by the rules. So,
here's where I landed. My Cloud Max plan
stays for my personal use with Claude
and Claude code on my devices when I'm
working. My OpenClaw agents use API
tokens completely separate. I'm running
those tokens through Open Router, which
centralizes all my API usage and makes
it easy to select from hundreds of
models and providers. More importantly,
it lets me carefully optimize which
agents use which models for which tasks.
You know, honestly, that optimization is
probably where I spent the most time
this past week, just figuring out which
tasks need the power of Opus and which
can run on cheaper, faster models.
Still, running this team of agents is
not cheap. And if you've been building
with the frontier models, then you
already know this isn't a free ride. And
from a business standpoint, if you
compare the token costs to the cost of
hiring multiple team members to do the
work that can maybe should be delegated
to agents, the ROI math gets pretty
compelling. Now to the question of
chatting with my agents. OpenClaw
supports a wide range of chat tools. I
started with Telegram since that was the
easiest to get up and running. It worked
for a few days and I was even able to
set up separate Telegram bots for each
agent. I'll talk about my multi- aent
configuration in just a minute. But
after a few days on Telegram, I found
the interface just wasn't comfortable,
especially when agents would send me
markdown formatted content, which kind
of works, kind of doesn't. So again, I'm
working with my agents like I tend to
work with teammates. and my teams have
always used Slack. So, I set up Slack
bots for each of my agents and that was
super easy. And Slack has great markdown
support. And I really like how we can
use threaded replies and that makes it
easy to manage multiple agents with
multiple requests and responses flying
around. Now, here's what made OpenClaw
really click for me. Instead of using it
as a single agent, I set up a multi-
aent configuration so that I can build
an actual team of four agents. Claw is
my system admin who I work with when I'm
tinkering with my OpenClaw system
itself. Bernard is my developer. Vale
works on marketing tasks and Gumbo is my
general assistant. Each agent runs as
its own Slackbot with its own
conversations. And I experimented with
having them all in a group chat which
kind of works but has some quirks. So I
assigned a default model to each agent.
Opus for Bernard the developer and Claw
the system admin. That's where reasoning
power really matters. And then Sonnet
for Vale, the marketer, and Gumbo, the
assistant. That's where speed and
efficiency make more sense. But I often
direct them to delegate parts of their
work to sub agents for tasks where I
need to specify a more expensive model
or a cheaper model. Now, I decided to
have them all share one workspace, which
means they all access the same memory
and I can manage configurations and
agents MD directives all in one place.
Also, my brain folder lives in this
workspace and that's where all of our
work gets synced up. And if you want to
hear more about my productivity system
with my agents, let me know in the
comments and I'll make another video all
about that. Now, OpenClaw has an
identity.md file and that's typically
used to define a single agents identity,
but I use it to define multiple
identities, one for each agent on my
team. I even used Claude and Gemini to
develop unique personality traits and a
visual avatar for each agent. I wanted
to have fun with it. You know, my bots
are characters inspired by one of my
favorite bands, Gorillas. Now, I did run
into some challenges with OpenClaw's
built-in cron system for scheduled
tasks. It was hard to associate those
tasks with specific agents on my team.
And so, that ended up being one of the
main reasons I built my own custom
dashboard and task dispatching system.
So, I quickly realized that managing my
agents via chat alone was not going to
cut it. I wanted to see all my scheduled
tasks in one place and be able to assign
them to specific agents. And I wanted to
track token usage so I know how much all
of this is costing me. You know, I just
wanted a central dashboard where I could
see the whole system at a glance. So,
naturally, I built one. Any excuse to
build something, right? I used cloud
code and my design OS process and I had
a working app in about a day. It's a
simple Rails app that connects to
OpenClaus Gateway and gives me a clean
interface for managing everything.
Honestly, that HQ dashboard was just the
beginning. Now I'm building another app
for editing and reading markdown files
in my brain system so that I can easily
manage what my agents have access to.
This is what I love about this moment
for builders. When a tool that I need
doesn't exist yet, I just build it in a
day. Now, the most important question
and the one that I keep hearing
everywhere is what are you actually
going to use your agents for? So, I've
identified a few specific areas where my
agents can fill real gaps in my
business. Let's start with the content
that I publish. Now, I only put things
out when I have something to say, and
that'll never change. But the truth is,
so much happens inside my projects and
in my conversations with other builders
that never makes it to a video or a
social post. So, I'm building systems
now that let my agents observe and
capture more of that work and help me
share more of it across my platforms.
Second is development. Now, I still love
to spend most of my time in cloud code
and cursor designing and architecting
products. That's not going to change,
but I'm having Bernard, my developer
agent, pick up backlog issues and track
production errors and submit PRs during
times when I can't get my hands on those
things. Third is the glue work. This is
a bottleneck that I feel every single
day. Every minute that I spend project
managing or copying and pasting or
scheduling content or documenting
things, that's time that I'm not
thinking, creating or building. And
those tasks should be automated or
delegated. And that's exactly what my
general assistant Gumbo is for. And the
use case that has me most excited is
reporting. So, having my agents surface
trends and patterns and new ideas on a
regular basis, helping me see blind
spots that I wouldn't notice on my own,
that's the kind of insight that helps me
teach ideas that actually help builders
get ahead and helps me create tools that
solve real problems. Now, I've already
started assembling the building blocks,
the processes for my agents to follow,
the automations, the custom tooling, and
I'd love to report back on a future
video to show you how all that's coming
together. So, make sure you subscribe to
the channel. Now, I want to be careful
not to oversell OpenClaw. It's still
very early, very raw, and I spent more
late nights than I'd like to admit just
getting things configured. But there's
no denying the breakthrough as a concept
that OpenClaw has broken open here, at
least in our circles of AI pill
builders. And I see this as one of those
things that's worth our extra effort to
be an early adopter on because systems
like this are only going to become more
commonplace as this year and next year
play out. And that gets at something
that I think is a fundamental skill for
us as builders in 2026. We have to be
willing to explore and tinker to figure
out how new tools can help us make real
progress in our business. That's the
value that we bring to the table and
it's one of the five essential skills
that I think we need to master to go
from being overwhelmed by the speed of
change to actually thriving in this new
environment. And I cover all five in my
video on going from an AI skeptic to
building an unfair advantage. So, right
after you hit subscribe on the channel,
I'll see you on that one next. Let's
keep building.